.\"
.TH ASMC "1" "January 2025" "Asmc Macro Assembler" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
asmc \- Asmc Macro Assembler
.SH SYNOPSIS
.SY asmc
[\fI\,options\fR] \fI\,filename\fR
[ [\fI\,options\fR] \fI\,filename\fR] ... [\-link \fI\,link_options\fR]
.YS
.SH DESCRIPTION
Asmc Macro Assembler
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-\fR{0|1|..|10}[p]
Set CPU: 0=8086 (default), 1=80186, 2=80286, 3=80386, 4=80486,
5=Pentium,6=PPro,7=P2,8=P3,9=P4,10=x86\-64.
"p" allows privileged instructions.
.TP
\fB\-arch:\fI\,option\fR
Specifies the architecture for code generation. Valid \fI\,option\fR\,s
are: IA32, SSE, SSE2, AVX, AVX2, and AVX512.
.TP
\fB\-assert\fR
Generate .assert code.
.TP
\fB\-autostack\fR
Calculate required stack space for arguments.
.TP
\fB\-bin\fR
Generate plain binary file.
.TP
\fB\-Bl\fI\,filename\fR
Selects an alternate linker in \fI\,filename\fR
.TP
\fB\-c\fR
Assembles only. Does no linking.
.TP
\fB\-Cs\fR
Push user registers before stack-frame is created in a proc.
.TP
\fB\-coff\fR
Generate COFF format object file.
.TP
\fB\-C\fR{p|u|x}
Set OPTION CASEMAP.
.RS
.TP
\fB\-Cp\fR
Preserves case of all user identifiers.
.TP
\fB\-Cu\fR
Maps all identifiers to upper case (default).
.TP
\fB\-Cx\fR
Preserves case in public and extern symbols.
.RE
.TP
\fB\-D\fI\,symbol\fR[=\fI\,value\fR]
Defines a text macro with the given name. If \fI\,value\fR is missing, it is blank.
Multiple tokens separated by spaces must be enclosed in quotation marks.
.TP
\fB\-dotname\fR
Allows names of identifiers to begin with a period.
.TP
\fB\-e\fI\,number\fR
Set error limit to \fI\,number\fR.
.TP
\fB\-elf\fR[64]
Generate ELF object file.
.RS
.TP
\fB\-elf\fR
Generate 32-bit ELF object file.
.TP
\fB\-elf64\fR
Generate 64-bit ELF object file.
.RE
.TP
\fB\-endbr\fR
Insert ENDBR at function entry.
.TP
\fB\-EP\fR
Generates a preprocessed source listing (sent to STDOUT). See \fB\-Sf\fR.
.TP
\fB\-eq\fR
Don't display error messages.
.TP
\fB\-Fd\fR[\fI\,file\fR]
Write import definition file.
.TP
\fB\-Fi\fI\,file\fR
Force \fI\,file\fR to be included.
.TP
\fB\-Fl\fR[\fI\,filename\fR]
Generates an assembled code listing. See \fB\-Sf\fR.
.TP
\fB\-Fo\fI\,filename\fR
Names an object file. In case of wildcard '*' may be used for current file.
.TP
\fB\-fpc\fR
Disallow floating\-point instructions.
.TP
\fB\-FPi\fR
Generates emulator fix-ups for floating-point arithmetic (mixed language only).
.TP
\fB\-FPi87\fR
80x87 instructions (default).
.TP
\fB\-fpic\fR, \fB\-fno\-pic\fR
Enables or disables the generation of position-independent code for ELF64.
Default is \fB\-fno\-pic\fR.
.TP
\fB\-fp\fI\,n\fR
Set FPU as \fI\,n\fR: 0=8087, 2=80287, 3=80387.
.TP
\fB\-frame\fR
Auto generate unwind information.
.TP
\fB\-Fw\fI\,filename\fR
Set errors file name.
.TP
\fB\-G\fR{c|d|z|v|s}
Pascal, C, Std/Vector/Sys\-call.
.RS
.TP
\fB\-Gc\fR
Specifies use of FORTRAN\-style or Pascal\-style function calling and naming conventions.
.TP
\fB\-Gd\fR
Specifies use of C\-style function calling and naming conventions.
.TP
\fB\-Gz\fR
Specifies use of STDCALL\-style function calling and naming conventions.
Defines STDCALLSUPPORTED.
.TP
\fB\-Gv\fR
Specifies use of VECTORCALL\-style function calling and naming conventions.
.TP
\fB\-Gs\fR
Specifies use of SYSCALL (System V)\-style function calling and naming conventions.
.RE
.TP
\fB\-Ge\fR
Emit a conditional _chkstk() inside the prologue.
.TP
\fB\-help\fR
Displays a summary of Asmc command\-line syntax and options.
.TP
\fB\-homeparams\fR
Forces parameters passed in registers to be written to their locations
on the stack upon function entry.
.TP
\fB\-I\fI\,pathname\fR
Sets \fI\,pathname\fR for include file.
.TP
\fB\-idd\fR[t]
Assemble as binary data [or text].
.RS
.TP
\fB\-idd\fR
Assemble source as binary data.
.TP
\fB\-iddt\fR
Assemble source as text file.
.RE
.TP
\fB\-logo\fR
Print logo string and exit.
.TP
\fB\-m\fR{t|s|c|m|l|h|f}
Set memory model.
.TP
\fB\-mz\fR
Generate DOS MZ binary file.
.TP
\fB\-MD\fR[d]
Use for dynamic linking.
Defines _MSVCRT.
Also defines _DEBUG if "d" is added.
.TP
\fB\-MT\fR[d]
Use for static linking.
Defines _MT.
Also defines _DEBUG if "d" is added.
.TP
\fB\-nc\fI\,name\fR
Set class name of code segment as \fI\,name\fR.
.TP
\fB\-nd\fI\,name\fR
Set name of data segment as \fI\,name\fR.
.TP
\fB\-nm\fI\,name\fR
Set name of module as \fI\,name\fR.
.TP
\fB\-nt\fI\,name\fR
Set name of text segment as \fI\,name\fR.
.TP
\fB\-nolib\fR
Ignore INCLUDELIB directive.
.TP
\fB\-pe\fR{c|g|d}
Generate PE binary file, 32/64\-bit.
c=CUI(default), g=GUI, d=DLL.
.TP
\fB\-q\fR
Suppresses messages for successful assembly.
.TP
\fB\-nologo\fR
Suppress copyright message.
.TP
\fB\-r\fR
Recurse subdirectories with use of wildcards.
.TP
\fB\-Sa\fR
Turns on listing of all available information.
.TP
\fB\-safeseh\fR
Marks the object as either containing no exception handlers or containing
exception handlers that are all declared with SAFESEH.
.TP
\fB\-Sf\fR
Adds first-pass listing to listing file.
.TP
\fB\-Sg\fR
Turns on listing of assembly\-generated code.
.TP
\fB\-Sn\fR
Turns off symbol table when producing a listing.
.TP
\fB\-Sp\fI\,n\fR
Set segment alignment as \fI\,n\fR.
.TP
\fB\-stackalign\fR
Align stack variables to 16-byte.
.TP
\fB\-sysvregs\fR
Ignore RDI and RSI in USES for Linux64.
.TP
\fB\-Sx\fR
Turns on false conditionals in listing.
.TP
\fB\-w\fR
Same as \fB\-W0\fR \fB\-WX\fR.
.TP
\fB\-W\fI\,level\fR
Sets the warning level, where level = 0, 1, 2, or 3.
.TP
\fB\-win64\fR
Generate 64\-bit COFF object. Defines _WIN64.
.TP
\fB\-ws\fI\,CodePage\fR
Store quoted \fI\,CodePage\fR as Unicode. Defines _UNICODE.
.TP
\fB\-WX\fR
Treat all warnings as errors.
.TP
\fB\-X\fR
Ignore INCLUDE environment path.
.TP
\fB\-Z7\fR
Add full symbolic debugging information.
.TP
\fB\-zcw\fR
No decoration for C symbols.
.TP
\fB\-Zd\fR
Generates line-number information in object file.
.TP
\fB\-Zf\fR
Make all symbols public.
.TP
\fB\-zf\fR{0|1}
Set FASTCALL type: MS/OW.
.TP
\fB\-Zg\fR
Generate code to match Masm.
.TP
\fB\-Zi\fR{0|1|2|3}{|5|8}
Add symbolic debugging information.
.TP
\fB\-zlc\fR
No OMF records of data in code.
.TP
\fB\-zld\fR
No OMF records of far call.
.TP
\fB\-Zm\fR
Enable MASM 5.10 compatibility.
.TP
\fB\-Zv8\fR
Enable Masm v8+ PROC visibility.
.TP
\fB\-Zne\fR
Disable syntax extensions not supported and enable syntax supported by Masm.
.TP
\fB\-zl\fR{f|p|s}
Suppress items in COFF
.RS
.TP
\fB\-zlf\fR
Suppress items in COFF: No file entry.
.TP
\fB\-zlp\fR
Suppress items in COFF: No static procs.
.TP
\fB\-zls\fR
Suppress items in COFF: No section aux entry.
.RE
.TP
\fB\-Zp\fR[\fI\,alignment\fR]
Packs structures of the specified byte boundary by \fI\,alignment\fR.
.TP
\fB\-Zs\fR
Perform syntax check only.
.TP
\fB\-zt\fR{0|1|2}
Set STDCALL decoration: FULL (default), NONE, and HALF.
.TP
\fB\-zze\fR
No export symbol decoration.
.TP
\fB\-zzs\fR
Store name of start address.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (C) 2011\-2025 The Asmc Contributors.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.TP
Online manual
.UR https://github.com/nidud/asmc/blob/master/readme.md
.UE
.TP
asmc_linux
.UR https://github.com/nidud/asmc_linux
.UE
.TP
asmc
.UR https://github.com/nidud/asmc
.UE
